{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 * Cost\
* Safety\
* Environmental Impact\
* Availability\
\
For daytime use, Solar Bottle Bulbs are a quantum leap over existing solutions for off-grid and rural lighting.\
\
Existing solutions:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Kerosene (expense, fire hazard, environmental impact, weak light, immediate health risk)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Electrical (expense, fire hazard, environmental impact, shock risk)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Torchlights (expense, wasteful, environmental impact)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}D-Light / solar charged lanterns (availability, expense -- targeted at different use case (night, East Africa))\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Revolution under way: kerosene -> battery/electrical -> greener tech (target CWllc folks? \{ d.light, offgrid solar, liter of light, other? \})\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 While their use is being rapidly curtailed in favor of battery-driven LED torchlights, kerosene lanterns are the classic source of off-grid light. This much can be said for lanterns: fire is a technology that everyone understands and can be relied upon to work. But where even batteries are available, kerosene's continued use is indefensible.\
\
Kerosene lanterns are incredibly expensive to operate \'97 Cf. d.light's assertion that up to a quarter of income can go to kerosene for lighting.\
\
Kerosene lanterns are incredibly dangerous to operate \'97 burn victims, lost possessions/compounds, etc\
\
Kerosene lanterns are incredibly dirty and unhealthy to operate \'97 smoke, CO, cancer, all fossil fuel issues\
\
Kerosene lanterns don't even produce much light! And they're hot!\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 LED torchlights are current in-place tech. They don't present the significant and immediate burn hazards kerosene does. The new availability of cheap, high-powered white LEDs extends the life of available batteries by an order of magnitude, driving their operating costs below that of kerosene. Few would contest that this is a good thing. LED torchlights will be an off-grid light source for the mid- to long-term.\
\
The batteries used in torchlights present mitigated versions of some of the same problems as kerosene use. Their continued consumption is a drain on the financial resources of the impoverished. Without a proper disposal mechanism, batteries are often left on the ground or, at best, buried; they contain strong acids and heavy metals and both can leach into the water supply. And while it's nowhere near as bad as kerosene, there exists the possibility of chemical burns from burst batteries.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 * safer than kerosene\
* convenient\
* bright\
* fossil fuel driven / not particularly green/clean\
* not common upcountry\
* unreliable\
* expensive\
* bulbs contain mercury\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 * great tech! link thereto\
* safe\
* reliable\
* green/clean/earth-friendly (little to no post-manufacturing carbon footprint)\
* reasonably affordable\
* limited availability\
* addresses a different use case -- they target lighting at night, LoL is daylight tech\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 * great tech!\
* safe\
* reliable\
* reuses materials otherwise discarded\
* incredibly green/clean/earth-friendly (no carbon footprint, pot. negative?)\
* highly affordable\
* local materials & construction\
* daylight only}